# Contributing to Diffcessible

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Diffcessible! This guide outlines how to contribute to the project effectively and make the most out of your collaboration experience.

## Getting Started

1. **Set Up the Project:** Make sure you have [forked](https://github.com/panglesd/diffcessible/fork) the repository and set up the project on your local machine. Follow the installation instructions in the [README.md](https://github.com/panglesd/diffcessible/blob/main/README.md) file.

2. **Understand the Code:** Spend some time getting familiar with the codebase. It's important to have a good grasp of how the project is structured before starting to contribute.

## Claiming an Issue

- **Find an Issue:** Start with "good first issues" to find tasks suitable for newcomers.
- **Claim an Issue:** To avoid duplicate efforts, you need to be assigned to an issue before working on it. To be assigned:
  - Ensure you can build the project successfully.
  - Comment on the issue thread with a screenshot showing the `--help` page of the project on your computer.
  - Ask to be assigned to the issue.
- **Getting Help:** If you need further guidance on the issue you're working on, don't hesitate to ask. We're here to help!

## Asking for Help

Encountering challenges is a normal part of the process. If you need help:

- **General OCaml and Tooling Help:** Visit the OCaml Discord server [here](https://discord.gg/tX3h39jxR6). Look for the "#outreachy" and "#beginner" channels on Discord for guidance.
- **Project-Specific Help:** Feel free to ask for help within the GitHub issue threads [here](https://github.com/panglesd/diffcessible/issues).

## Contributing Guidelines

- **Commit Messages:** Use concise and descriptive commit messages. This helps with the project's history and review process.
- **Pull Requests:** Before submitting a pull request, make sure your code complies with the project's standards and passes all tests.. This process involves two key steps:
  1. **Code Formatting:** Use `dune fmt` to automatically format your code according to the project's style guidelines. This command will apply the formatting rules defined in the `.ocamlformat` configuration file, ensuring consistency across the project.

      To run this command, navigate to the root directory of your project in your terminal and execute:
       
            dune fmt
      
      **Note:** You will need `ocamlformat=0.26.1` installed to format your code correctly. If you haven't installed it yet, you can do so by running:
          
          opam install ocamlformat.0.26.1
      
      To learn more about `dune fmt`, check out the Man page [here](https://www.mankier.com/1/dune-fmt), or run `man dune fmt` on your terminal.

  2.  **Running Tests:** After formatting your code, run `dune runtest` to execute the project's test suite. This command will compile and run all tests to verify that your changes do not introduce any regressions.

      To run this command, navigate to the root directory of your project in your terminal and execute:
       
            dune runtest
      
      To learn more about `dune runtest`, check out the Man page [here](https://www.mankier.com/1/dune-runtest), or run `man dune runtest` on your terminal.

## Contributing and AI

While AI tools can be helpful, we encourage contributors to use them wisely. Rely on your understanding and critical thinking:

- **AI Assistance:** Use AI as a learning tool, not as a crutch. Ensure any code generated by AI is thoroughly reviewed and understood before submission.
- **Original Contributions:** We aim for contributions to reflect personal effort and understanding. Directly copying AI-generated code without comprehension is discouraged.

## Thank you for contributing to Diffcessible!
